 REGINA v SPENS Southwark Crown Court: Mr Justice Henry: March 13 1992 A PROSECUTION decision in the public interest and with court approval to offer no evidence against the accused despite having sufficient evidence to proceed, does not compel a not-guilty verdict, and the court has an unfettered discretion to record such a verdict or to stay proceedings permanently. And where the proceedings are stayed so that the accused is never tried to a verdict, the court may examine his admitted conduct to ascertain whether there is a positive reason for refusing to pay his costs out of public funds in that he brought the prosecution on himself. Mr Justice Henry so held when (1) refusing an application by Patrick Michael Rex Spens for a not guilty verdict following discharge of the jury in fraud proceedings against him and his co-defendant, Roger Seelig, arising out of the Guinness takeover of Distillers group; (2) refusing his application for a costs order; and (3) granting his application for remission of his Pounds 100,000 legal aid contribution. HIS LORDSHIP said that Mr Seelig's mental health had broken down under the strain of conducting his own defence. The court had discharged the jury from giving verdicts in respect of him and Lord Spens. Because of Mr Seelig's impact on the trial it would not have been right to continue as against Lord Spens alone. On a nolle prosequi direction by the Attorney General, the proceedings against Mr Seelig were stayed without a verdict being given. Lord Spens was in a different position. Nothing in the state of his health prevented him standing trial again in front of a second jury. The director of the Serious Fraud Office had stated that there was sufficient evidence to proceed against him, but she decided the public interest did not require him to undergo a second trial. She offered no evidence against him. Lord Spens now applied for a not-guilty verdict. Section 17 of the Criminal Justice Act 1967 provided that where the prosecution proposed to offer no evidence the court 'may if it thinks fit, order that a verdict of not guilty shall be recorded'. Where there was insufficient evidence for the Crown to proceed, the usual practice was to direct that a not-guilty verdict be recorded. But that was not this case. Here there was sufficient evidence. Mr Hood for Lord Spens submitted that where the prosecution offered no evidence for whatever reason and the court expressed approval, as it had here, there was no jurisdiction under section 17 to do anything other than enter a not-guilty verdict. That was not accepted. As Parliament had given a discretion whether or not to order a not-guilty verdict when the prosecution offered no evidence, it was implicit that there was a sensible alternative to that course. The alternative was to order that the indictment should lie on the file, marked not to be proceeded with. Such an order amounted to a permanent stay. On the strength of the authorities there was an unfettered discretion under section 17. If the court were to order a permanent stay, it would leave Lord Spens in the same position as Mr Seelig. There was no injustice in that. In each man's case, for different reasons, a decision had been taken that it would be unfair to proceed further against him. Neither would ever be tried to a verdict. In those circumstances, it was not right to order a not-guilty verdict in respect of Lord Spens. The court should grant a permanent stay by ordering the indictment to lie on the file. That was to treat Lord Spens in the same way as Mr Seelig. Such an order reflected the reality of what had happened. Lord Spens's second application was for a defendant's costs order under section 16(2)(a) of the Prosecution of Offences Act 1985. Lord Spens had been in receipt of legal aid since December 4 1990. The costs he might recover out of central funds under section 16 did not include expenses incurred on his behalf by the Legal Aid Board or his contribution to the Board. It did include expenses reasonably incurred by him personally in his defence. Under the section the court's power to make an order lay because Lord Spens had not been tried to a verdict. The section gave an unfettered discretion. Such an order should normally be made 'unless there are positive reasons for not doing so' (Practice Direction, May 3 1991). Examples of such reasons were: 'The defendant's own conduct has brought suspicion on himself or has misled the prosecution into thinking that the case against him is stronger than it is.' In examining whether a defendant's conduct amounted to positive reason to deny him costs, the court was not restricted to conduct falling precisely within the words of the example. It must examine his conduct and decide in all the circumstances whether it amounted to a positive reason. In considering Lord Spens's conduct the court based its decision on his account of it, given to Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) inspectors who interviewed him on December 16 1986 and March 17 1987. The court was entitled to act on what he said on oath to the DTI inspectors, and should act on it, because it had to decide whether public money should be paid to Lord Spens. It was not going outside what he said on oath to the inspectors. The question was whether Lord Spens's admitted conduct amounted to a positive reason for denying him his costs out of public funds. Lord Spens was a merchant banker specialising in corporate finance. He was bound to conduct himself in accordance with the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers. Under general principle 6 of the code, Lord Spens was obliged to use every endeavour to prevent the creation of a false market. He had a professional duty to consult the Takeover Panel on all doubtful questions. On the Guinness bid for Distillers Lord Spens was faced with an unusual proposition about indemnity-backed share purchasers, beyond his immediate experience and about which he knew there were two schools of thought. He chose not to consult. The potential for a false market was there for all to see. He took no stance to avoid it. Had he consulted the panel he would have been told to have nothing to do with the transaction. He would therefore not have been prosecuted. By his conduct he brought prosecution on himself. It would be wrong to use public funds to protect him from the consequences of that fact. That was a positive reason for denying him defendant's costs. The application was refused. Lord Spens's last application was for remission of his legal aid contribution. At the commencement of the preparatory hearings he was acting in person, as was Mr Seelig. The court urged him and Mr Seelig to apply for legal aid. There was a strong public interest in a defendant's being legally represented in long trials. With both defendants competently represented the trial would have concluded within three or four months rather than the threatened year. In exercising its discretion the court could approach the matter in the way that reflected the public interest. It could look at his financial position today, rather than 15 months ago when the matter was assessed. In taking account of his position today, it must have regard to the fact that it was not making a defendant's costs order and that he therefore had liabilities to pre-legal aid lawyers. Also the court must be satisfied that he was in a position to contribute. On the figures before it, the court was satisfied that Lord Spens's financial position was not such as would enable him to pay legal aid contribution. The right order in all the circumstances, having regard to his overall liabilities, was to remit his entire contribution. For the Crown: Elizabeth Gloster QC and Richard Horwell (Serious Fraud Office). For Lord Spens: David Hood and Simon Stafford-Michael (Garstangs, Bolton).