 ADSTEAM, the Australian retailing and manufacturing group which is being restructured by its bankers, yesterday reported a consolidated net loss of ADollars 133m (USDollars 102m) for the six months to the end of December, compared with a loss of ADollars 1.2bn in the comparable period of the previous year. The group said it was still being adversely affected by interest payments on debt acquired when the company was being run by Mr John Spalvins, the Australian entrepreneur, who left last year after being fired in December 1990. However, the directors said the trading businesses were performing 'reasonably satisfactorily' in view of the recession, with the exception of the Metro Meat subsidiary and some property interests. The largest loss during the period was made by David Jones, an upmarket retailing chain, which posted one of ADollars 57m, compared with ADollars 1.18bn in the comparable period of the previous year. Adelaide Steamship, the flagship company, reported a net loss of ADollars 48m, down from ADollars 1.15bn; Tooth made a net loss of ADollars 38m compared with ADollars 582m; and National Consolidated reported a net loss of ADollars 5m. The only bright spot was Industrial Equity (IEL), which reported a net profit of ADollars 27m. IEL confirmed that the disposal of Woolworths, its supermarket chain, was under consideration. Analysts say Woolworths could raise between ADollars 1.5bn and ADollars 2bn on the Australian Stock Exchange, which would make it Australia's second highest capitalised retailer. Woolworths is the main competitor to Coles Myer, Australia's largest retailing chain. It has continued to perform strongly in spite of Adsteam's financial problems. Woolworths made pre-tax profits of ADollars 211 last year, and is expected to report profits of about ADollars 240m this year. However, growth is expected to slow over the next few years following the completion of an investment programme. IEL, which is jointly-owned by three other Adsteam companies, has agreed credit lines of ADollars 1.45bn with a syndicate of 14 banks which replaced its previous 51 lenders. Adsteam has already spun off a number of retailing assets in the ADollars 235m flotation last year of National Foods. Pacific Dunlop, the diversified Australian manufacturing group, bought Petersville Sleigh, another former Adsteam company, for ADollars 352m. The group reported a consolidated net loss of ADollars 1.57bn for the year to June 30. The banks stepped in to restructure it in late 1990 after the shares came under strong selling pressure because of concern about the group's complex cross-shareholding structure and extensive inter-company debt.