 Waterford's Red Kettle Theatre Company has replaced Galway's Druid Theatre as the provincial company to watch in Ireland. Red Kettle has the advantage of an interesting young playwright, Jim Nolan, among its number. Nolan's Moonshine, ably directed by Ben Barnes, makes the transition from Waterford's smaller, more intimate theatre to the vast open spaces of the Abbey with apparent ease. The cast at first appears to have escaped from the pages of a William Trevor story: McKeever, an incompetent and mildly-batty undertaker obsessed with amateur dramatics; his assistant Michael, the inevitable half-wit; the Rev Langton, a Church of Ireland rector who has lost both his congregation and his faith. Add a sexy schoolgirl, a greasy, foul-mouthed gravedigger,and the trim rector's daughter, Lizzie, returning after a five-year absence to see her dying mother, and you would seem to have the formula for a predictable, tragi-comic exploration of small-town life. But this is to reckon without McKeever's extraordinary determination to present A Midsummer Night's Dream, although his cast, like Rev Langton's congregation, keep diminishing and is now reduced to four, including himself. Then there is the revelation that Lizzie left home at 17 because of an unhappy affair with the balding, middle-aged undertaker. Gradually the characters reveal themselves as deeper and more complicated than their appearance would suggest. Given the fact that McKeever is an undertaker, and the setting is a disused Church of Ireland, it is small wonder that the jokes are not particularly subtle, descending even to a running commentary during an on-stage embalming session. There are better jokes, chiefly those of another playwright, during the rehearsals of the Pyramus and Thisbe scene from the Dream, an interval presented by 'rude mechanicals just like us', as the cast keep reminding themselves. At the climax of the play, when Rev Langton breaks down during his last sermon, Michael, with supreme intuition, introduces the Pyramus and Thisbe scene into Mrs Langton's funeral service. Religion and theatre become inter-changeable sources of relief from the tedium of everyday life - the 'Moonshine'. On the strength of this play, Jim Nolan is a competent writer rather than a brilliant one. He cannot resist the easy laughs, but he compensates for this by achieving, occasionally, moments of high mayhem. His women are the least developed characters, and have the flattest lines. For enigmatic Lizzie to greet her lover after a five-year with 'long time no see' is just not good enough. While Tom Hickey gives a fine performance as the frenetic McKeever, Frank McCusker's amazingly touching and dignified village idiot steals the show. At first he seems merely stupid, then dangerously vulnerable, and, ultimately, like all the best fools, the only wise one among us. His performance will be remembered long after the undertaking jokes are forgotten.