 Brian Raincock, one of the pioneers of legal expenses insurance in the UK, is planning a new venture to sell the product overseas after severing his ties with The Legal Protection Group last month. A former naval captain, Raincock, now 52, founded LPG in 1977 and built up the company during the 1980s before selling out to Sun Alliance in December 1988. LPG was the first insurance company to offer policyholders a 24-hour helpline, backing up its range of personal and commercial legal expenses and professional indemnity policies. But there the story turns sour. Raincock crossed swords with Sun Alliance senior management about the pace of the subsidiary's development. Matters came to a head in January when Sun Alliance closed all five of LPG's regional sales offices and made 57 of its 400 staff redundant after the company failed to make a profit in 1991. Raincock lost his job as managing director and resigned from the company last month. He says he is still bullish about the prospects for legal expenses and other niche products and is looking for backers who will promote the product abroad. ***** Chris Burton, formerly finance director of Rattner Mackenzie, is now group finance director of WINDSOR. Jonathan Ticehurst, formerly at Minet, and Jeremy Lowe, formerly at Willis Faber, are appointed directors of Windsor Insurance Brokers; Charles Meaden, who previously ran his own sports management company, is appointed marketing and development director. Patrick Mills, formerly with Minet, is appointed new business director of employee benefits at Lyon Lohr, Windsor's financial services arm. ***** Robb Wilmot who, while chairman of the former UK-owned computer manufacturer ICL, was instrumental in tying up the historic technology agreement with Japan's Fujitsu which secured the UK company's future, has been nominated to the board of Sequent Computer Systems. Wilmot has been an adviser to the US company for a number of years. If his nomination is approved, he will replace outgoing Sequent president Scott Gibson on the board. Before becoming chairman of ICL, Wilmot was managing director of Texas Instruments in the UK; since leaving, he has founded a number of companies including Organisation and Systems Innovations (Oasis) and Poqet, a pocket computer maker. Sequent, now recovering from a series of loss-making quarters, makes top-of-the-line minicomputers using series of microprocessors working together. It is associated with the Japanese company Matsushita which markets its machines in Japan. ***** Andrew Soundy, 52, has been appointed senior partner of Ashurst Morris Crisp, the City solicitors, following the sudden and unexpected resignation of Martin Bell, on the ground of continuing ill-health. Bell, who is 57, had been senior partner for six years. Soundy, who is a company and commercial lawyer, has worked for Ashursts throughout his professional career having joined the firm in 1963 as an articled clerk. He hopes to be able to continue to act for his existing clients, among them Allied-Lyons and IBM, while he is senior partner. He lives in Hampshire where he has a small farm and breeds pedigree Limousin cattle.