 LUCAS INDUSTRIES, one of the largest UK engineering groups, is uncomfortable. This is not just because of the interim figures which would have been just above break-even had it not been for a timely injection of a pension fund surplus. Nor is it a matter solely of the recession. Rather it is a question of spending heavily, simply to stay in the high-technology games it has decided to play, while at the same time coping with a reduced cashflow. Lucas needs money. One measure of the problem is the gearing. Last July Lucas had gearing of 39 per cent. Next July, according to Sir Anthony Gill, chairman, it will still have gearing of about 39 per cent. Yet in the meantime it has had a once-off injection of Pounds 90m, a distribution from the Lucas Pension Fund. When, last November, the Occupational Pensions Board gave approval for that transfer, Lucas was making it clear that gearing would be reduced to 26 per cent. The group's inability to hold gearing at that level is recognition of the fact that it does not have sufficient cashflow to spend simultaneously on capital investment, research and development, reduction of the cost base, and dividends. Without the help of the pension fund, the group would clearly have been even more uncomfortable. As it is, its situation has been made more difficult by the shift in responsibilities at the top of the group, which will see Sir Anthony handing over executive responsibility to Mr Anthony Edwards, chief of the aerospace division, and its unexpected aftermath. This was the tension on the board which led eventually to the resignation - suitably compensated - of Mr Michael Hankinson, the finance director. The immediate future will see Mr Edwards looking for further opportunities to simplify the structure of the group, to bring about a greater technological co-operation between the three main operating divisions - aerospace, automotive and applied technology - and, inevitably, to reduce costs further. But this is for the longer term and marks a continuation of what has been taking place at Lucas for some years. Sir Anthony, however, was stressing yesterday that Lucas is a group whose activities can only be seen in the long term. Hence the research and development expenditure and capital investment, which at Pounds 50.3m and Pounds 49.1m respectively in the first half, held up well against last time. Once this expenditure is combined with a sharp increase in reorganisation and redundancy costs - Pounds 15.4m in the first half and likely to be slightly more in the second - then immediate financial pressures increased. Probably the pressure was unavoidable. Over the longer term, Lucas, like other large component makers in the motor sector, has been building closer technical and financial relationships with the main vehicle manufacturers. Instead of simply supplying parts, it designs, often in co-operation with the vehicle maker, complete systems. The benefit is a more secure customer base as Lucas becomes 'a preferred supplier'. The downside is that Lucas has to spend more money at the front end. Yet what is now happening in the automotive sector has already happened in aerospace. So the need for a heavy cashflow is evident. But recession made certain that it would not be forthcoming. Lucas may share in its main business sectors, but worldwide sales fell more than the figures - Pounds 1.15bn (Pounds 1.18bn) in the 1991-92 first half - might suggest. The numbers look better once the effect of new acquisitions and exchange rate gains are taken into account. Operating profit in the first half was down to a modest Pounds 17.1m, a fall of more than Pounds 50m compared with the first half of last year. As interest payments came to Pounds 16.9m, the group's ability to pay for its longer-term needs out of current income was effectively wiped out. The position may improve in the second half. Although Mr Edwards does not expect operating profits from aerospace to be more than the Pounds 16.3m earned in the first half, the minuscule profits from automotive products should increase. Mr Bob Dale, the chief of Lucas' automotive side, has noticed some pick-up in the market and expects the benefits of earlier cost-cutting to show up. But the Lucas directors can thank the pension fund for bridging the gap between the short and the long term.