 AS MR Uffe Ellemann-Jensen, the country's foreign minister of the past 10 years, puts it: 'Such is the Danish character that if we politicians tell them that they ought to do this and that, they will turn round and reply, 'That's for us to decide'.' And this is the attitude which the politicians are up against in the campaign to persuade the Danes to back the Maastricht treaty in the referendum to be held on June 2. Maastricht has to be ratified by all 12 EC parliaments; if it fails in one, it effectively fails in all. Denmark will be the first to pass judgment on the treaty, thereby ensuring that the very first obstacle for Maastricht will also be one of the hardest. It would have been safer tactics, say diplomats and officials in Brussels, if the Danes had delayed their referendum so that countries like Belgium and Italy, where ratification is a foregone conclusion, could give them a lead. Although parties representing 144 out of the 179 seats in the Folketing support European Union, opinion polls over the past month have shown majorities against the treaty. However, it is too early to make any firm predictions: about a third of voters have yet to make up their minds. This time, the issue is at once vague - 'an ever closer union of the people of Europe' - and exhaustively detailed. Mr Morten Jersild, whose advertising agency conducted a campaign for membership of the EC in 1972, was quoted as saying that trying to sell the Maastricht treaty to the public is 'a hopeless task'. 'The price of the product is unknown, and so are the side-effects. If anyone asked us to inform the Danes ahead of the referendum in June we'd decline.' The grandiose vision of a European union holds little appeal for most Danes. Polls show that they attach great importance to maintaining the country's 'Danishness' and right of self-determination. They are sceptical of devolving sovereignty to Brussels, and larger proportions of the electorate than in other EC countries, including Britain, are against a common foreign or defence policy and against a common currency. A factor which may contribute to a vote against Maastricht is the leadership dispute in the opposition Social Democratic Party, where the deputy chairman, Mr Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, has challenged the present chairman, Mr Svend Auken. The contest will be decided at an extraordinary congress of the party on April 11. The SDP's internal problems are caused by widespread disillusion with Mr Auken's qualities as leader and have distracted the party from campaigning. The SDP helped agree the Danish negotiating position for Maastricht and the party leadership is solidly behind the agreement which was reached. But there is a two-to-one majority against Maastricht among the party's supporters, according to opinion surveys. Three of the eight parties in the Folketing are against Maastricht, the Socialist People's Party, which in its time was against Nato, EC membership, and the internal market; the right-wing Progress Party, and the centrist Christian People's Party, which is so badly split that in a recent debate on Maastricht it fielded both pro and anti spokesmen. Additionally, between now and mid-May, minor or uncontroversial amendments to the treaty are possible, if all 12 agree. It is, for instance, highly likely that Ireland will change the wording of its special anti-abortion protocol and that, if the UK has a Labour government after the April 9 poll, Maastricht's separate social policy protocol will be abandoned. But Copenhagen has asked its EC partners for all such changes to be agreed before it sends its final version to press on May 14. The features of Maastricht causing such a large chunk of the Danish electorate disquiet are too large to be re-negotiated, either before the June 2 referendum or probably even after. No one in Denmark seems clear on the consequences of a Danish 'no' but Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Poul Schluter, the prime minister, and Danish voices from Brussels, including the budget commissioner, Mr Henning Christoffersen, and Mr Niels Ersboll, the secretary general of the Council of Ministers, have all said that it will be the beginning of the end for Denmark's membership. The Euro-sceptics in the Folketing argued in a debate on March 17 that if there is a Danish 'no', it merely means that Maastricht will have to be renegotiated. However, the government thinks it is highly unlikely that the EC's other 11 members will undo a delicately balanced deal in order to accommodate 5m Danes. The Socialist People's Party spokesmen, Mr Gert Petersen and Mr Sten Gade, pointed out that the Rome Treaty contains no provisions for throwing out members of the EC and that Maastricht requires unanimity. A possible future for Denmark would be some kind of associate membership. One of the paradoxes of a Danish 'no' is the risk of isolating itself from its Nordic neighbours, assuming that Sweden and Finland, which have both applied for membership, actually join. Perhaps the Nordic argument is the one which will finally convince the doubters that a 'yes' is probably the best alternative after all.