 BMW, the German executive and luxury car-maker, has reached an advanced stage in the investigation of potential production sites outside Germany. The company said yesterday it was studying sites in the US and in Europe and a decision could be made by the early summer. BMW, one of the most successful European car-makers, has increased its car production consistently every year during the past decade, with output rising to a record 553,230 in 1991. The company said it was working at the limit of its capacity. Last year's 6.5 per cent increase in output was only achieved through heavy use of overtime with the working of 27 additional Saturday shifts. According to a US Government memorandum quoted in Automotive News, the authoritative US auto industry magazine, BMW is '80 per cent' decided on building a new car plant in the US. BMW said it was narrowing its selection of locations to a short-list of four to five potential sites, and confirmed that Anderson, South Carolina, was one of them. According to Automotive News, Mr Andrew Thoms, the US Consul-General in Munich, has written an official memorandum to the US embassy in Bonn concerning BMW's plans following a recent meeting with Mr Eberhard von Kuenheim, BMW chairman. BMW said yesterday it had still not taken a final decision on whether to press ahead with a foreign production site and was investigating whether such a site would be used: To assemble cars supplied in kit form (CKD) from Germany; or To produce components such as engines; or To make such a plant the single source for a particular model variant, such as an estate car range. BMW has studied production in the US in particular as a way of countering its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations between the US dollar and the D-Mark. It is also facing severe price competition in the US high-performance luxury car market, in particular from Japanese car-makers. Despite heavy falls in its US car sales since the mid-1980s, the US remains BMW's second largest market after Germany, with sales of 53,300 last year or nearly 10 per cent of its worldwide sales. BMW's production is heavily concentrated in Germany at present, but in common with other German car-makers it has become increasingly concerned at high German production costs and the pressure for shorter working hours.