 HACHETTE, the heavily indebted French media group, is being forced to restructure its finances because of its exposure to La Cinq, the struggling television station which filed for bankruptcy earlier this year and will on Friday learn whether it is to close. The news of the restructuring follows months of speculation about the secretive media group's financial situation. Hachette, which is in discussions over a proposed merger with Matra, the French defence group that is also controlled by the Lagardere family's interests, yesterday announced it expected to make provisions of up to FFr1.8bn (Dollars 322.8m) in its 1991 accounts to cover its exposure to La Cinq. This means Hachette, burdened by net debt estimated at FFr8bn, urgently needs to increase its shareholders' equity which would be reduced to around FFr1.2bn after such a provision. As a result, it has begun negotiations with its banks and shareholders - including Credit Lyonnais and Banque Nationale de Paris, the state-controlled French banks - to restructure its finances. Yesterday, there was speculation in the Paris stock market that the restructuring could involve the Lagardere faction, which owns 51 per cent of Hachette, losing control of the group, whose interests include the worldwide rights to Elle magazine. Hachette, which is expected to announce an overall loss for 1991 after sustaining a FFr30m net loss in the first half of the year, is still in negotiations over the full extent of its exposure to La Cinq, for which it made a previous FFr1.75bn provision in its 1990 accounts. However, the 1991 provision of FFr1.8bn is expected to cover all potential liabilities, including the possibility of compensating the financial investors, such as Kleinwort Benson, the London-based bank that Hachette introduced to La Cinq when it took control of the channel in autumn 1990. The group has been trying to sell assets to reduce the debts amassed by a spending spree in the US, notably the acquisition of Grolier, the encyclopedia group, for Dollars 449m, and of Diamandis magazines for Dollars 712m. It has sold some printing interests in France and Spain, but its historic property on Boulevard St Germain in Paris and its 8.1 per cent stake in Rizzoli, the Italian publishing group, are still on the market.